docs/build.md, before:

<img align="right" width="280" height="230" src="https://github.com/jimmy-e/mybord-server/blob/master/etc/assets/build.jpg">

# Build

This summarizes the build process for the MyBord codebase as well as any other config files. For
deploying to our production instance, please see the [deployment doc](https://github.com/jimmy-e/mybord-server/blob/master/docs/deployment.md).

## Table of Contents:

* [I. Babel](#i-babel)
* [II. Public](#ii-public)
* [III. ESLint](#iii-eslint)
* [IV. Docker](#iv-docker)
* [V. Yarn Commands](#v-yarn-commands)
* [VI. Env Vars](#vi-env-vars)
* [VII. Important Branches](#vii-important-branches)

## I. Babel

Babel is a javascript compiler. Its configs can be found at
[.babelrc](https://github.com/jimmy-e/mybord/blob/master/.babelrc).

* [Documentation](https://babeljs.io/docs/en/)
* [Source Code](https://github.com/babel/babel)

## II. Public

In order to serve our client application, we grab the bundled files from the client application
by cloning the client repository, taking the bundled files and copying them to the `public`
folder, and then deleting the cloned repository.

In order to clone the client repository, we need to use our ssh keys. These keys are stored in
the `.ssh/` folder at the root of the repository and should always be gitignored for security
purposes. Thus, in order to perform the operation to get the client's bundled files, you will
need to take your `id_rsa` and `id_rsa.pub` files and copy them to the `.ssh/` folder.

## III. Eslint

Eslint is used to lint our javascript and TypeScript code. It's config file in the root 
directory, [`.eslintrc.js`](https://github.com/jimmy-e/mybord/blob/master/.eslintrc.js),
sets up our syntax rules, importing rules, and use of global variables.

By principle, MyBord-Server is set to follow
[AirBnB's Javascript Style Guide](https://github.com/airbnb/javascript) and
[TypeScript ESLint](https://github.com/typescript-eslint/typescript-eslint).

## IV. Docker

We use docker for our virtualized containers.

The file, `/src/prisma/docker-compose.yml` is used by prisma to start up the configured docker
container that holds the image for our prisma instance and database.

### A. Docker Commands

* In order to create a docker image locally, make sure you have all of the necessary env vars in
the `dev.env` file and access to your own development database via heroku and then run the command
`yarn compose-docker:dev`.
* If you want to delete a local docker image & container, run the following commands:
  * List the docker containers: `docker ps`
  * Stop the relevant docker container: `docker stop <CONTAINER ID>`
  * Delete the relevant docker container: `docker rm <CONTAINER ID>`
  * List the running docker images: `docker images`
  * Delete the relevant docker image: `docker rmi <IMAGE ID>`
  
### B. References  

* [Docker CLI Reference](https://docs.docker.com/compose/reference/overview/)

## V. Yarn Commands

The following are the yarn commands for our server application:

* **`compose-docker:dev`:**
  * This composes a local docker image / container based upon the development database instance
   from heroku.
* **`push-heroku:dev`:**
  * This pushes our node.js application to our development heroku app (e.g.
  `mybord-server-dev-jimmy`). See [deploying our node.js application to Heroku](https://github.com/jimmy-e/mybord-server/blob/master/docs/deployment.md#a-deploying-our-nodejs-application-to-heroku)
  for more information.
* **`push-heroku:prod`:**
  * This pushes our node.js application to our production heroku app (e.g.
  `mybord-server-prod`). See [deploying our node.js application to Heroku](https://github.com/jimmy-e/mybord-server/blob/master/docs/deployment.md#a-deploying-our-nodejs-application-to-heroku)
  for more information.
* **`build-public:prod`:**
  * Gets the master front-end bundle and saves it to the `client` folder. For more information, see
  [here](#ii-public).
* **`build-public:dev`:**
  * Gets the front-end bundle based off the branch specified in dev.env and saves it to the `client`
  folder. For more information, see [here](#ii-public).
* **`get-schema`:**
  * Generates graphql schema / typedefs from our prisma ORM.
* **`remove-dist`:**
  * Removes the 'dist/' folder.
* **`prisma-delete:dev`:**
  * Deletes the prisma instance hosted on the dev instance.
* **`prisma-deploy:dev`:**
  * Generates / deploys the prisma instance to the dev instance.
* **`prisma-delete:local`:**
  * Deletes the prisma instance hosted that is hosted locally.
* **`prisma-deploy:local`:**
  * Generates / deploys the prisma instance to a local instance.
* **`prisma-delete:prod`:**
  * Deletes the prisma instance hosted on the prod instance.
* **`prisma-deploy:prod`:**
  * Generates / deploys the prisma instance to the prod instance.
* **`webpack:dev`:**
  * Builds the server with the dev webpack configuration.
* **`webpack:prod`:**
  * Builds the server with the prod webpack configuration.
* **`build-server:local`:**
  * Builds a local server using the dev webpack configurations.
* **`build-server:prod`:**
  * Builds the server.
* **`run-server:prod`:**
  * Runs a local server.
* **`run-server:prod`:**
  * Runs the built server.
  * NOTE: env vars will get injected via heroku when we run `yarn start`.
* **`start`:**
  * This is the command that creates our production application by doing the following, in order:
    * It builds our production node.js server / application.
    * It runs our node.js server / application.
  * We use the `start` command because when we deploy our node.js application to heroku, it looks
   at our `package.json` file and runs the `start` command.
    
## VI. Env Vars

### A. Env Var Files

When running locally, at the root of folder, you will need to create three separate env var files:

* **`local.env`:**
  * a file containing node environment variables for your local instance when running
   the server in 'LOCAL' mode.
* **`dev.env`:**
  * a file containing node environment variables for your deployed development instance when running
   the server in 'DEV' mode.
* **`prod.env`:**
  * a file containing node environment variables for your deployed production instance when running
   the server in 'PROD' mode.
   
### B. List of Env Vars   

The following are the env vars needed to run our server application. Note that `DOCKER_DB_HOST`,
`DOCKER_DB_NAME`, `DOCKER_DB_PASSWORD`, `DOCKER_DB_PORT`, and `DOCKER_DB_USER` are database
credentials that come from the [relevant Heroku database information](https://github.com/jimmy-e/mybord-server/blob/master/docs/deployment.md#b-instances).

* **`DOCKER_DB_HOST`**:
  * This is the host name of the relevant heroku database instance.
* **`DOCKER_DB_NAME`**:
  * This is the database name of the relevant heroku database instance.
* **`DOCKER_DB_PASSWORD`**:
  * This is the database password of the relevant heroku database instance.
* **`DOCKER_DB_PORT`**:
  * This is the database port of the relevant heroku database instance.
* **`DOCKER_DB_USER`**:
  * This is the database user id of the relevant heroku database instance.
* **`EXTERNAL_PORT`**:
  * This is the external port that our client application can connect to.
* **`FE_BRANCH`**:
  * The front end branch that should be cloned when creating the client application to serve.
* **`GAPI_KEY`**:
  * This is the google api key that is used to access the Youtube Data API. The GAPI key can be
    found [here](https://console.developers.google.com/apis/credentials?showWizardSurvey=true&project=mybord).
* **`MODE`**:
  * Declares what environment the server application is running in; can either be 'DEV', 'LOCAL',
  or 'PROD'.
* **`NODE_ENV`**:
  * Should be the same as `MODE`. Does not need to be listed in the local env var files. Despite
   webpack overriding what `process.env.NODE_ENV` will be, we for some reason need to list this in
  the Heroku config env vars or else the server will fail to build  ¯\_(ツ)_/¯
* **`PORT`**:
  * The exposed port that the server will run on.
  * NOTE: This env var **must** be named `PORT` because Heroku uses this env var to declare what
   port the node.js application must run on when the application is deployed to Heroku. Because
   of this, *all .env files should not declare this env var*.
* **`PRISMA_ENDPOINT`**:
  * The endpoint that our prisma instance should run on.
  * NOTE: except for the local.env file, you can find the necessary http endpoint in our prisma
   cloud app at https://app.prisma.io (the http endpoint is everything before the `?`).
  * NOTE: the `PRISMA_ENDPOINT` for local.env should be `http://localhost:4466/default/default`
* **`PRISMA_SECRET`**:
  * The secret that authenticates our prisma instance.
* **`SESSION_SECRET`**:
  * Signs our express session cookie.
  
### C. Env Var File Examples  
  
**`dev.env`:**
```
DOCKER_DB_HOST=ec2-1234.compute-1.amazonaws.com
DOCKER_DB_NAME=db1234
DOCKER_DB_PASSWORD=abcd1234
DOCKER_DB_PORT=9876
DOCKER_DB_USER=jklmno
EXTERNAL_PORT=8080
FE_BRANCH=master
GAPI_KEY=defgh34567
MODE=DEV
PRISMA_ENDPOINT=https://sample-app.herokuapp.com/sample-app-prisma-service/dev
PRISMA_SECRET=thisIsAPrismaSecret
SESSION_SECRET=thisisASessionSecret
```

**`local.env`:**
```
DOCKER_DB_HOST=ec2-1234.compute-1.amazonaws.com
DOCKER_DB_NAME=db1234
DOCKER_DB_PASSWORD=abcd1234
DOCKER_DB_PORT=9876
DOCKER_DB_USER=jklmno
EXTERNAL_PORT=8080
GAPI_KEY=defgh34567
MODE=LOCAL
PRISMA_ENDPOINT=http://localhost:4466/default/default
PRISMA_SECRET=thisIsAPrismaSecret
SESSION_SECRET=thisisASessionSecret
```

**`prod.env`:**
```
DOCKER_DB_HOST=ec2-1234.compute-1.amazonaws.com
DOCKER_DB_NAME=db1234
DOCKER_DB_PASSWORD=abcd1234
DOCKER_DB_PORT=9876
DOCKER_DB_USER=jklmno
EXTERNAL_PORT=8080
GAPI_KEY=defgh34567
MODE=PROD
PRISMA_ENDPOINT=https://sample-app.herokuapp.com/sample-app-prisma-service/prod
PRISMA_SECRET=thisIsAPrismaSecret
SESSION_SECRET=thisisASessionSecret
```

## VII. Important Branches

The following are important branches in regards to the `mybord-server` repo:

* **`master:`**:
  * This is the branch where our production code lives.
* **`mini_server:`**:
  * This branch contains a very simplified build of our node.js application and is used for
   debugging.

Commit message:

adding SSH_PASSPHRASE as env var and updating buildPublic.ts script to use ssh passphrase

docs/build.md, after:

<img align="right" width="280" height="230" src="https://github.com/jimmy-e/mybord-server/blob/master/etc/assets/build.jpg">

# Build

This summarizes the build process for the MyBord codebase as well as any other config files. For
deploying to our production instance, please see the [deployment doc](https://github.com/jimmy-e/mybord-server/blob/master/docs/deployment.md).

## Table of Contents:

* [I. Babel](#i-babel)
* [II. Public](#ii-public)
* [III. ESLint](#iii-eslint)
* [IV. Docker](#iv-docker)
* [V. Yarn Commands](#v-yarn-commands)
* [VI. Env Vars](#vi-env-vars)
* [VII. Important Branches](#vii-important-branches)

## I. Babel

Babel is a javascript compiler. Its configs can be found at
[.babelrc](https://github.com/jimmy-e/mybord/blob/master/.babelrc).

* [Documentation](https://babeljs.io/docs/en/)
* [Source Code](https://github.com/babel/babel)

## II. Public

In order to serve our client application, we grab the bundled files from the client application
by cloning the client repository, taking the bundled files and copying them to the `public`
folder, and then deleting the cloned repository.

In order to clone the client repository, we need to use our ssh keys. These keys are stored in
the `.ssh/` folder at the root of the repository and should always be gitignored for security
purposes. Thus, in order to perform the operation to get the client's bundled files, you will
need to take your `id_rsa` and `id_rsa.pub` files and copy them to the `.ssh/` folder.

## III. Eslint

Eslint is used to lint our javascript and TypeScript code. It's config file in the root 
directory, [`.eslintrc.js`](https://github.com/jimmy-e/mybord/blob/master/.eslintrc.js),
sets up our syntax rules, importing rules, and use of global variables.

By principle, MyBord-Server is set to follow
[AirBnB's Javascript Style Guide](https://github.com/airbnb/javascript) and
[TypeScript ESLint](https://github.com/typescript-eslint/typescript-eslint).

## IV. Docker

We use docker for our virtualized containers.

The file, `/src/prisma/docker-compose.yml` is used by prisma to start up the configured docker
container that holds the image for our prisma instance and database.

### A. Docker Commands

* In order to create a docker image locally, make sure you have all of the necessary env vars in
the `dev.env` file and access to your own development database via heroku and then run the command
`yarn compose-docker:dev`.
* If you want to delete a local docker image & container, run the following commands:
  * List the docker containers: `docker ps`
  * Stop the relevant docker container: `docker stop <CONTAINER ID>`
  * Delete the relevant docker container: `docker rm <CONTAINER ID>`
  * List the running docker images: `docker images`
  * Delete the relevant docker image: `docker rmi <IMAGE ID>`
  
### B. References  

* [Docker CLI Reference](https://docs.docker.com/compose/reference/overview/)

## V. Yarn Commands

The following are the yarn commands for our server application:

* **`compose-docker:dev`:**
  * This composes a local docker image / container based upon the development database instance
   from heroku.
* **`push-heroku:dev`:**
  * This pushes our node.js application to our development heroku app (e.g.
  `mybord-server-dev-jimmy`). See [deploying our node.js application to Heroku](https://github.com/jimmy-e/mybord-server/blob/master/docs/deployment.md#a-deploying-our-nodejs-application-to-heroku)
  for more information.
* **`push-heroku:prod`:**
  * This pushes our node.js application to our production heroku app (e.g.
  `mybord-server-prod`). See [deploying our node.js application to Heroku](https://github.com/jimmy-e/mybord-server/blob/master/docs/deployment.md#a-deploying-our-nodejs-application-to-heroku)
  for more information.
* **`build-public:prod`:**
  * Gets the master front-end bundle and saves it to the `client` folder. For more information, see
  [here](#ii-public).
* **`build-public:dev`:**
  * Gets the front-end bundle based off the branch specified in dev.env and saves it to the `client`
  folder. For more information, see [here](#ii-public).
* **`get-schema`:**
  * Generates graphql schema / typedefs from our prisma ORM.
* **`remove-dist`:**
  * Removes the 'dist/' folder.
* **`prisma-delete:dev`:**
  * Deletes the prisma instance hosted on the dev instance.
* **`prisma-deploy:dev`:**
  * Generates / deploys the prisma instance to the dev instance.
* **`prisma-delete:local`:**
  * Deletes the prisma instance hosted that is hosted locally.
* **`prisma-deploy:local`:**
  * Generates / deploys the prisma instance to a local instance.
* **`prisma-delete:prod`:**
  * Deletes the prisma instance hosted on the prod instance.
* **`prisma-deploy:prod`:**
  * Generates / deploys the prisma instance to the prod instance.
* **`webpack:dev`:**
  * Builds the server with the dev webpack configuration.
* **`webpack:prod`:**
  * Builds the server with the prod webpack configuration.
* **`build-server:local`:**
  * Builds a local server using the dev webpack configurations.
* **`build-server:prod`:**
  * Builds the server.
* **`run-server:prod`:**
  * Runs a local server.
* **`run-server:prod`:**
  * Runs the built server.
  * NOTE: env vars will get injected via heroku when we run `yarn start`.
* **`start`:**
  * This is the command that creates our production application by doing the following, in order:
    * It builds our production node.js server / application.
    * It runs our node.js server / application.
  * We use the `start` command because when we deploy our node.js application to heroku, it looks
   at our `package.json` file and runs the `start` command.
    
## VI. Env Vars

### A. Env Var Files

When running locally, at the root of folder, you will need to create three separate env var files:

* **`local.env`:**
  * a file containing node environment variables for your local instance when running
   the server in 'LOCAL' mode.
* **`dev.env`:**
  * a file containing node environment variables for your deployed development instance when running
   the server in 'DEV' mode.
* **`prod.env`:**
  * a file containing node environment variables for your deployed production instance when running
   the server in 'PROD' mode.
   
### B. List of Env Vars   

The following are the env vars needed to run our server application. Note that `DOCKER_DB_HOST`,
`DOCKER_DB_NAME`, `DOCKER_DB_PASSWORD`, `DOCKER_DB_PORT`, and `DOCKER_DB_USER` are database
credentials that come from the [relevant Heroku database information](https://github.com/jimmy-e/mybord-server/blob/master/docs/deployment.md#b-instances).

* **`DOCKER_DB_HOST`**:
  * This is the host name of the relevant heroku database instance.
* **`DOCKER_DB_NAME`**:
  * This is the database name of the relevant heroku database instance.
* **`DOCKER_DB_PASSWORD`**:
  * This is the database password of the relevant heroku database instance.
* **`DOCKER_DB_PORT`**:
  * This is the database port of the relevant heroku database instance.
* **`DOCKER_DB_USER`**:
  * This is the database user id of the relevant heroku database instance.
* **`EXTERNAL_PORT`**:
  * This is the external port that our client application can connect to.
* **`FE_BRANCH`**:
  * The front end branch that should be cloned when creating the client application to serve.
* **`GAPI_KEY`**:
  * This is the google api key that is used to access the Youtube Data API. The GAPI key can be
    found [here](https://console.developers.google.com/apis/credentials?showWizardSurvey=true&project=mybord).
* **`MODE`**:
  * Declares what environment the server application is running in; can either be 'DEV', 'LOCAL',
  or 'PROD'.
* **`NODE_ENV`**:
  * Should be the same as `MODE`. Does not need to be listed in the local env var files. Despite
   webpack overriding what `process.env.NODE_ENV` will be, we for some reason need to list this in
  the Heroku config env vars or else the server will fail to build  ¯\_(ツ)_/¯
* **`PORT`**:
  * The exposed port that the server will run on.
  * NOTE: This env var **must** be named `PORT` because Heroku uses this env var to declare what
   port the node.js application must run on when the application is deployed to Heroku. Because
   of this, *all .env files should not declare this env var*.
* **`PRISMA_ENDPOINT`**:
  * The endpoint that our prisma instance should run on.
  * NOTE: except for the local.env file, you can find the necessary http endpoint in our prisma
   cloud app at https://app.prisma.io (the http endpoint is everything before the `?`).
  * NOTE: the `PRISMA_ENDPOINT` for local.env should be `http://localhost:4466/default/default`
* **`PRISMA_SECRET`**:
  * The secret that authenticates our prisma instance.
* **`SESSION_SECRET`**:
  * Signs our express session cookie.
* **`SSH_PASSPHRASE`**:
  * The ssh passphrase of the github user that is used to clone the mybord-client repository.
  
### C. Env Var File Examples  
  
**`dev.env`:**
```
DOCKER_DB_HOST=ec2-1234.compute-1.amazonaws.com
DOCKER_DB_NAME=db1234
DOCKER_DB_PASSWORD=abcd1234
DOCKER_DB_PORT=9876
DOCKER_DB_USER=jklmno
EXTERNAL_PORT=8080
FE_BRANCH=dev_branch
GAPI_KEY=defgh34567
MODE=DEV
PRISMA_ENDPOINT=https://sample-app.herokuapp.com/sample-app-prisma-service/dev
PRISMA_SECRET=thisIsAPrismaSecret
SESSION_SECRET=thisisASessionSecret
SSH_PASSPHRASE=sample-passphrase
```

**`local.env`:**
```
DOCKER_DB_HOST=ec2-1234.compute-1.amazonaws.com
DOCKER_DB_NAME=db1234
DOCKER_DB_PASSWORD=abcd1234
DOCKER_DB_PORT=9876
DOCKER_DB_USER=jklmno
EXTERNAL_PORT=8080
FE_BRANCH=local_branch
GAPI_KEY=defgh34567
MODE=LOCAL
PRISMA_ENDPOINT=http://localhost:4466/default/default
PRISMA_SECRET=thisIsAPrismaSecret
SESSION_SECRET=thisisASessionSecret
SSH_PASSPHRASE=sample-passphrase
```

**`prod.env`:**
```
DOCKER_DB_HOST=ec2-1234.compute-1.amazonaws.com
DOCKER_DB_NAME=db1234
DOCKER_DB_PASSWORD=abcd1234
DOCKER_DB_PORT=9876
DOCKER_DB_USER=jklmno
EXTERNAL_PORT=8080
FE_BRANCH=master
GAPI_KEY=defgh34567
MODE=PROD
PRISMA_ENDPOINT=https://sample-app.herokuapp.com/sample-app-prisma-service/prod
PRISMA_SECRET=thisIsAPrismaSecret
SESSION_SECRET=thisisASessionSecret
SSH_PASSPHRASE=sample-passphrase
```

## VII. Important Branches

The following are important branches in regards to the `mybord-server` repo:

* **`master:`**:
  * This is the branch where our production code lives.
* **`mini_server:`**:
  * This branch contains a very simplified build of our node.js application and is used for
   debugging.
